# LightPack
Senior Project Android Application
The LightPack Android application will be downloaded by the user from the Google Play Store. After the download is complete and the applications is opened, the user will be guided through a short tutorial process. During this process the user will learn how to use the application. The application’s start page will have options for the user to connect to their LightPack, and to enter a desired location. Upon selecting either of the above options, the user will be taken to the respective page in the application. 

The LightPack connection page will have a field for the user to input their LightPack Bluetooth address. Once the user has input a correct address, and the LightPack is powered on, the phone will attempt to make a Bluetooth connection. If the user is able to connect, a prompt will signal the user the connection has been established. If the user is unable to connect to the LightPack, a prompt will remind the user to power on their LightPack and to try to connect again. If the user is still unable to connect, they will be prompted to contact customer support. 

The LightPack destination page will contain two fields, one for latitude and one for longitude. There will be a button called, “Start Trip”, that will locate the user and check their location against the desired location continuously until the user either reaches their destination, or the application times out. Implementing a “timeout” time in the application is very important because of the way Google’s Geolocation API bills the team. The amount Google charges is dependant on use. So if the user has the application running while they are not using it, the team may be charged exorbitant fees. 

The application will only be able to locate user’s that have location services enabled on their device, and have access to mobile data. The LightPack application will prompt the user on initial startup, requesting permission to use their mobile device’s location services. Location services only works however, if the user has mobile data enabled on their device. If the application is unable to detect the user’s current location, the user will be prompted to enable location services for the application and to ensure that mobile data is enabled on their device. 

The current design enables the user to enter their desired location by inputting latitude and longitude coordinates. This implementation may not be ideal for user experience, however, this method facilitates the implementation of the application. Hopefully, future updates will enable the user to enter a location through the Google Maps API. 

Implementation and design of the LightPack application will be done using Android Studio 2.2.2.0 for Windows. The Android Studio IDE is equipped to handle the graphic design, programming of backend software, and product to market aspects of Android application development. Android Studio has been around since May 2013, and is the most widely used IDE for Android application development. The IDE has a huge community associated with application development and most of the challenges that will be faced are well documented and well supported by the community.

The LightPack smartphone application is necessary to handle the location services aspect of the project. Designing a mobile application will be easier and less expensive than equipping the device with a GPS module. There are currently 207 million smartphones [13] in the United States alone. More than half of which run Android operating system. By designing the product to work natively with 107 million devices, it will be exposed to a very large market. Keeping the user’s best interests in mind, cyclists need a hands free method of using the LightPack. Bluetooth integration facilitates this. 
